In my last video we had a look at this inductor
which was from an LED bulb that had failed.
I ended up taking a cross section of this to have a look
inside and it ended up being rather interesting
so I thought I'd show you some of the ones that
I’ve done in the past.
Here is a normal metal film resistor you can see the ceramic core that has
been coated in metal and then these slits cut in
it to adjust the resistance.
Here is a solid tantalum capacitor,
this one's only been cut one fourth the way through
Here is a common1N4001 silicon diode,
here you can see the silicon junction in the middle
with the two copper connections on either side
there's some sort of conductive adhesive between
these and of course the plastic encapsulation
This here is a rather interesting silicon
avalanche diode manufactured by Vishay
this diode is in a sintered glass package which
contains quite a few different metals that have
been soldered together I’m not exactly sure
why they do everything in this package but it's
certainly rather interesting, the construction
also explains why this particular diode has a
surprisingly large leakage current due to light
exposure as you can see the sintered glass package
connects directly to the silicon die.
now theparticular diode that I’m interested in today is this one here this is a 2CL77 20 killovolt 5milliamps diode, this one's manufactured by HVGTsemiconductor
and I’m rather interested
to see how this is constructed inside.
If we take a look at the datasheet
we can see it's a pretty standard
high voltage silicon rectifier diode and
we can see it's used in circuits such as this
one here but the applications list air purifiers
negative ion generators and electrostatic voltage
doubling circuits and I’ve more specifically
seen these before in laser printers quite
often in the high voltage circuits for the toner
electrostatic stuff but you can often see these in
low power reasonably low voltage x-ray machines
that mean 20 killovolts of course and of course
other high-voltage rectifier circuits however I’m
not quite sure how these are manufactured although
looking more specifically at the datasheet we
can see this here maximum forward voltage drop
is 45 volts which makes me think this is actually
just a whole bunch of normal silicon dies
stacked on top of each other in order to reach a
20 killovolt breakdown voltage now in order to do
the cross section I’m just going to do exactly
the same as I did in that other LED video I’ll
play it really quickly though so that you can get
an idea. Now I did cut this on a cross section with
the mould line just in case there was some sort
of a non-symmetrical design but I’m doubting it
this took quite a while I started off with 250
grit and made my way down to eventually 3000 grit
a little bit the way through
we can start to see some
by looks of it bits of copper on one side
of the diode and yet here we go now that
I’ve sanded the other side down a bit more
we can see that it is actually symmetrical
sanding it down even further we can start to
make out some of the silicon die can't really see
exactly what's going on here yet so I’ll sand
it down all the way to halfway through now
and of course this took quite a while it's it
takes quite a lot of effort to sand these things
down, eventually I got to halfway through
though and started polishing it with some
2000 and 3000 grit sandpaper
to make it nice and smooth
now that I’m down to halfway through and have
polished it it's really obvious now you can see
the individual lines of the dies so this is
definitely just manufactured through a bunch
of stack diodes now we can quite clearly make
out the individual silicon dyes and if we count
them there's 22 of them and of course dividing
the maximum forward voltage drop of 45 volts
down by 22 we get about 2 volts per silicon die
which doesn't really make sense to me I’d have
expected it to be 0.5 volts per die or about
that so I’m not sure if these are special or if
the manufacturer is just being very generous
with their maximum forward voltage drop
maybe it's under the maximum temperature
or something something I’m not quite sure
if you do know please leave it in the description
because I can't really find much information about
how these high voltage diodes work although
I did test later on with a high voltage
insulation tester and i found that the diode
drop was actually much closer to what i expected
It's also perfectly feasible that the AliExpress
seller that I bought from either sold me the
wrong diode intentionally or accidentally or maybe
they even purchased a fake diode unintentionally
so I’ll just leave you with some other close-up
shots of this and as always thanks for watching